29 times around the sun
#######################
:date: 2007-05-04 15:35
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: beach, birthday, church, ministry, musings, relationships, sabbath
:slug: 29-times-around-the-sun
:status: published

*Jericho Beach, \ `49°16'22"N by
123°11'51"W <http://maps.google.com/maps?q=49%C2%B016'22.45%22N%20123%C2%B011'51.40%22W&t=h>`__*

It's quite nice how my birthday falls just after the close of the school
year, so that I do actually have a chance to rest and reflect. I like
going to the beach to think and pray: something about the water and the
long sight-lines is so soothing!

Today, I drove clear across town to Jericho Beach on Point Grey; I
remember \ `walking barefoot on the sandflats of nearby Acadia Beach
last year </2006/acadia-beach-at-low-tide>`__. As I park the car and
meander on foot along the waterfront, the weather around me today is
breathtakingly, paradoxically, beautiful. It is bright and sunny with
the promise of summertime, but it is yet still brisk with the chill wind
of winter. Above me and towards the ocean, the sky is cloudless blue;
above the city and towards the mountains, it is dark and cloudy. In the
distance fall long vertical lines of rain. When I stand still, the
sunshine warms my face even as the arctic breeze makes me shiver.

Further down the pathway, there is an enclosed shipyard storing hundreds
of small sailboats, and wafting from it is a light tinkling melody that
sounds like windchimes. I think it rather odd, until I draw closer and
realize that it is actually the sound of rigging, clanging against
hundreds of hollow aluminum masts! What lovely music! There are a few
other people out at the beach on this Friday afternoon, but for now I am
alone with my thoughts.

--------------

Sunday school at KS these few weeks has had a guest speaker, Paul
Stevens, talking about dating and marriage: I think it's been really
good! A lot of people from FL came over especially for these talks; we
had probably 70-80 people in the basement of KS. It's only natural, I
suppose, for me to be thinking a lot about these things. I have a lot of
head knowledge about the right things to do, but when the heart gets
involved I suppose it's a different story.

We certainly don't teach enough in the church about proper
dating/courtship. I know of more than one Chinese church that was so
afraid of their kids dating that they made rules (explicit or implicit)
against dating within the youth group. The problem is that it doesn't
prevent kids from dating -- it just means they start dating
non-Christians outside the youth group! I think the churches simply find
it easier to make rules than really to study the Scriptures, take a
defensible stance, and teach with compassion and full conviction.

Along the beach, I stop at a strategic park bench to do my devotionals:
the bench is somewhat sheltered from the wind, but still warmed by the
sun. :) My quiet time today is from I Peter 1, but the first time I read
through it, somehow it doesn't seem to register in my mind: I am still
thinking of other things. I flip ahead a few pages and see that indeed,
chapter 3 does talk about family and marriage -- but only after
reaffirming basic theology in chapter 1. I'm eager to get to ch3's
verses on husband and wife roles, but first I come up against this:

    | Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
      according to His great mercy has caused us to be born again to a
      living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the
      dead, to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled
      and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, who are
      protected by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready
      to be revealed in the last time.
    |  `(I Peter 1:3-5,
      NASB) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=1Pe1:3-5>`__

Why is this passage here? Why does it come first? Through the fog in my
brain these verses sound a piercing clarion bringing me back to the
solid assurance we have in Christ -- our living hope, our future
inheritance, and our present calling. The calling of Jesus Christ takes
primacy! Everything else, even marriage and family, follows after --
these relationships ought not to supplant our service to God, but rather
further the kingdom of God as our own personal relationships become a
public testimony of God's grace. I've heard it said before that one of
the best ways to find a wife is simply to keep on doing what God has
called you to do -- and along the way, in God's timing, if it is His
will, He will set before you a corresponding "helpmeet", an \ *ezer
kenegdo*, compatible in ministry. Reading a bit further on:

    | Therefore, prepare your minds for action, keep sober in spirit,
      fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the
      revelation of Jesus Christ.
    |  `(I Peter 1:13,
      NASB) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=1Pe1:13>`__

--------------

There's an old adage I heard once from a speaker: "Major on the majors,
and minor on the minors". He was an ex-Mormon, and was sharing about how
to reach Mormons and help them to discern. On the surface, the Mormon
church talks just like any mainline Christian denomination, but when we
dig deeper and ask them important questions -- is Jesus the Son of God,
how can we be saved, etc. -- we find big problems. These are the majors!
Everything else -- the hymns we sing, community service, even living
lives that the world considers "moral" -- those are minor:
not\ *un*\ important, but of \ *secondary* importance.

I fear we've lost sight of the majors in church. It saddens me to hear
about people who give up on our church because the hymns are too boring,
or others who give up on coming to prayer meeting because the worship is
too loud, too "free", too "charismatic" (however they define that dicey
term!). Have we lost the discernment of what are the majors and what are
the minors? Have we lost sight of the Great Commission? Have we lost
sight of the many around us who are desperate for the simple message of
the saving grace of Jesus Christ? We are not defined by our style of
music, or our cultural demographic, or our socio-economic class: we are
defined and unified by our life in Jesus Christ and our mission to
preach the gospel to the ends of the earth.

I've heard it said before that our church is mostly upper-middle class
professionals: that it's not a church for crack addicts, for instance. I
agree it's good to have a target audience for purposes of
new \ *initiatives*, but are we prepared to \ *respond* to any and all
who enter? To the non-Christian, one church is pretty much the same as
any other -- one of the most common questions I've had non-Christians
ask me is what the difference is between denominations, and why there's
so much animosity. I don't have a good answer for the latter! In a
church of our size and prominence we're pretty much guaranteed already
to have people, many people, addicted to crack, to alcohol, to porn, to
gambling. It's not that they don't exist, it's that they are struggling
silently, because of the certain condemnation and gossip that will
happen if they open up. It is a scathing judgment of our church. Let us
be known as a church for upper-middle class crack addicts! Let us be
known as a church that welcomes alcoholics, smokers of tobacco or
marijuana, those who have had abortions, those who are struggling with
homosexual sin. Church should be a hospital!

    | It is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those
      who are sick. But go and learn what this means: 'I DESIRE
      COMPASSION, AND NOT SACRIFICE,' for I did not come to call the
      righteous, but sinners.
    |  `(Matthew
      9:12-13) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=Mt9:12-13>`__

--------------

Ohhh, my heart is rolling now! :) Ach, but I have rambled far from the
current passage, and the thoughts that I had at first today. A book
given to a friend of mine during relationship counseling said something
akin to this: "Stay single in order to \ *serve* Jesus. Get married in
order to \ *be* like Jesus."

I'm not sure I totally agree with the word choice, but I see the point:
We who are single have time and freedom to serve God in many ways that
aren't so easy for married couples. At the same time, marriage is the
quintessential picture of God's love relationship with us: the struggles
and lessons learned in marriage need to mould our character to be more
like Christ.

I think of the fictional character, \ `St. John, in \ *Jane
Eyre* </2007/moonrise-in-my-living-room>`__: he proposed to Jane because
he saw her as a useful tool, a comrade in arms for the ministry. But he
did not love her -- and so he had a wrong concept of marriage. At the
other extreme, I know of many young couples whose lives are so busy that
they simply stop serving God, particularly once they have kids: they
only attend Sunday worship, arrive late, and hide out in the balcony. So
many see church as a subcontracted service they pay for, to babysit
their kids and teach them to be obedient to their parents. But somehow
our service to God ought to be enhanced and refined by family: we
worship and serve God together as a family unit, and the reconciliation
that we pursue within the family spills outward to influence the church
toward unity under Christ.

I think of my own parent's marriage, how it has become a platform for
ministry to reach many thousands of people all over the world with the
gospel of Jesus Christ. Their marriage is not perfect, to be sure, but
in the honest sharing of lessons learned, all these anecdotes from their
private life (and indeed, ours as well, as their children) become a
public proclamation of God's faithfulness: God's blessing when we follow
His Word, and God's grace when we fall.

--------------

So I suppose now you're wondering where I'm going with these thoughts --
if/when am I going to get married! :) I don't really have the answer to
that, myself! It will be in God's timing, by God's calling, and for
God's glory. The breeze is turning colder now; it's time for me to wrap
this up. The word I heard from God \ `this time last year on Acadia
beach </2006/acadia-beach-at-low-tide>`__ was: \ ***WAIT***. This year,
it seems I'm hearing:\ ***TRUST***.
