He Must Become Greater, I Must Become Less
##########################################
:date: 2010-10-14 22:47
:author: dearwifey
:category: Blog
:tags: gospel, musings
:slug: 586
:status: draft

Earlier this year, my Bible reading had taken me through the Old
Testament, but I stopped at Ezekiel.  What I had been reading and what I
would have read is a repeated history of Israelites’ continual rebellion
and God’s relentless calling through the prophets.  My heart ached for
the suffering servants and Israelites; it hurt me to read about pain and
judgment .

More than that, the prophesies were getting personal and uncomfortable;
I realized that my life was a little mirror of Israel’s walk with God. 
Daily I was convicted of my weak, sinful state, but I was reluctant to
repent and change.  I mean, who are we kidding here?  “Change” in God’s
dictionary means “the old has gone, the new has come”. I know I can't
just "wear" this change during my Bible study / prayer time / church
time, but during every awakening and sleeping moments I must fully
surrender my heart and let it be renewed.

I had the head knowledge, but being like Jesus inside-out-24/7 is
hard!.  I buried my head in the sand and jumped to the New Testament,
finished it, and started from Matthew again, still unenthusiastic about
wrapping up my Old Testament reading.   But one day, this passage in
Mark reminded me of my previously unfinished reading:

    | After John was put in prison, Jesus went into Galilee, proclaiming
      the good news of God. "The time has come," he said. "The kingdom
      of God is near. Repent and believe the good news!"
    |  `(Mark
      1:14-15) <http://mobile.biblegateway.com/passage/index.php?search=mk1:14-15>`__

Repent, turn back to God, and be saved -- *"For God so loved the world
that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall
not perish but have eternal life" `(John
3:16) <http://mobile.biblegateway.com/passage/index.php?search=jn3:16>`__*.
This good news that Jesus preached -- is this not the same message that
the Old Testament prophets had proclaimed throughout their history?  And
now, God's plan of salvation was \ *complete* as Jesus died and rose
from the dead.  The Gospel is the power of God for the salvation of
everyone who believes!

Repent!  My sorrow for the Israelites and my attempted escape from the
Old Testament were a reflection of my wrong perspective and lack of
faith.  I should focus not on men (the world) nor myself, but on the
Cross and Jesus.  I repented, and God freed me from the bondage of sin!

The Gospel is paradoxically simple and difficult, light and dense, plain
and mysterious.  It is free to all, and yet it requires one's whole
heart, mind, soul, and strength.  It is not only for non-believers, but
also for Christians, for this is the only way to live. It is so precious
that it makes the world’s greatest treasure dim.
