A tale of two explosions
########################
:date: 2010-11-26 16:56
:author: dearwifey
:category: Blog
:tags: food, home
:slug: a-tale-of-two-explosions
:status: published

TTSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

With a loud hissing sound in the background, I stood in the middle of
the kitchen, stunned, and helplessly watched two high-pressure steams
from the pressure cooker, spraying everywhere!

I don’t know what I was thinking -- I popped open the release valve  on
my pressure cooker when it had been cooking on "high" for 20
minutes.  Now I KNOW the power of a pressure cooker!

After the eruption (and I) calmed down, I started to count my blessings:
(1) I was cooking bean soup and not chicken soup hence it was relatively
easier to clean, (2) the trajectories of the two hot steams were aiming
slightly besides me and not toward me, and (3) this was a great
opportunity to thoroughly clean up the kitchen!

Ah, so with thankfulness in my heart, I washed everything from dishes to
pots, stove to appliances, and wall to floor!  It took us a whole day to
reasonably tidy up the mess.

The mess -- it reminded me of the "bird bombs" that our study sustained
back in April. In April, our condo complex had a fire, and it destroyed
our neighbours' homes. Fortunately, our condo suffered no damage.
Nevertheless, the firefighters still came to our house to spray foam in
our attic, accessible through the ceiling in the study.

The firefighters left without closing up the attic, and we were not
allowed to return to the house for three days.  After we came back from
our impromptu-mini-vacation and entered the study, we were greeted by a
new post-modern painting -- with bird poop as the paint, and the room as
the canvas!

The bird must have flown into the attic through the burned-down condo,
and when she saw the light from our room, she flew toward the light but
got trapped inside.  Out of either happiness or panic, she pooped
everywhere –- soft, slushy drops splashed on the wall, desk, computer,
and things in between.

Awww… we forgot to take pictures of these disasters for the viewing
pleasure our readers!  In the bird bomb case, I immediately rolled my
sleeves and started to clean up.  In the pressure cooker case, I was too
shocked to think.

In the evening I finally finished cleaning and just collapsed on the
couch by Sean, who buried himself in his work, as usual.  I had this
strange thought, "some photos of these disasters would have captured the
fun of my domestic life."  And so I murmured, "hmm… too bad it is
impossible to replicate these disastrous scenes for some good picture
memories…."  To this, Sean immediately sprang his head from his computer
and firmly said, "oh, no, never again!"
