After three years...
####################
:date: 2011-09-17 16:40
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:slug: after-three-years
:status: published

.. raw:: html

   <div>

So yes, we have not updated our blog for a long time.  There is really
no excuse; we simply did not push ourselves hard enough to write.
 Besides Sean’s ministry and part-time job, we spend our free time
talking, napping, cooking (me) and eating (Sean and me), or just
moseying around the house.  We have a lot of fun together and are amazed
at the endless entertainment that we bring to each other in our ordinary
daily life.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

Sean manages his own invitations and ministry schedule.  After he
confirms an invitation, he has the good habit of putting it on Google
Calendar.   In order for me to know where I am going each Sunday, I have
to look up his calendar on Google from time to time and copy it to my
phone’s calendar.  (I have no direct access to his computer or cell
phone – he takes gadget security seriously – he uses strong passwords or
his fingerprint.)  So, yesterday I was doing just that.  As I flipped to
October, I noticed this entry on Oct 21: “engagement”.  I confessed I
grumbled when I saw it.  I mean, who holds an engagement party on a
weekday?  (Weird.)  Who invited Sean but not me?  (How rude!)  Is Sean
going to a party without telling me?!  (Is this an old flame?  But he
has long insisted that he had none.)

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

I scratched my head and started to poke around other entries to find
clues..   After about 10 minutes, my smarts seemed to come back – wait,
when did I get engaged?  I tried to recall.  Oh yes, we got engaged on
Oct 21, 2008!  Oh, so THIS is MY engagement!

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

I then promptly forgot about the above until today.  I was thinking
about our blog and came here to see what we had written, and I saw the
word “engagement” in an old entry.  Before I forgot about it again, I
ran upstairs to the study and told Sean about it.  “Duh,” he laughed,
“It is YOUR engagement.”  He went on, “You will see ‘anniversary’ on May
23 on the calendar next year.  It is YOUR wedding anniversary, silly
pie.”  “Oh… yeah… I will remember that!”  (I did twice forget about my
previous anniversaries!)  And we just laughed and hugged and laughed
some more!

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

Yup, so here, we finally wrote a blog entry after a long hiatus.  This
also commemorates our 3-year-engagement-anniversary, yes.  And I do hope
I can write more blog entries about Sean, who also has no shortage of
funny stories on his forgetfulness.  I promise I will write them down
if/when I recall these moments!

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

[Photo: Sean on our engagement day]

.. raw:: html

   </div>
