Bob and Jayne’s wedding!
########################
:date: 2008-07-19 16:21
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: vcac, wedding
:slug: bob-and-jaynes-wedding
:status: published

Hey, it's Bob and Jayne's big day! What a happy celebration it is; from
start to finish I don't think Bob was ever able to wipe that huge grin
off his face! It's also truly a testimony of God's faithfulness and
grace that brought the two of them together.

Jayne's happy but a bit nervous, you can tell. Everything went quite
smoothly, but it's a pretty big deal to her family and friends. Jayne's
a PK/MK, and her parents have a lot of connections in Vancouver. I think
over 600 people must have been crammed in the KS sanctuary. Her parents
got married in this very sanctuary, decades ago! And as the first of her
siblings to get married, she had a fair bit of pressure in the
wedding-planning stages. Her dad was the one to officiate, but they also
had a "word of exhortation" from Pastor John, who had done their
pre-marital counselling.

I thought the ceremony was beautiful and worshipful, and I really
enjoyed it from my front-row seat. I especially appreciated that Jayne
specifically wanted their wedding to be a worship service with the
gospel clearly communicated, for the sake of Bob's relatives and their
friends and coworkers who were not Christians. It was such a privilege
for me to lead worship for them.

It was also ridiculously cool, albeit a bit head-spinning, to catch up
again with lots of old KS/FL friends, some of whom I hadn't seen in over
a year. Even from KS, which nominally is my "home church" now, there
were many friends and aunties/uncles whom I hadn't seen in a long time
-- ever since the ministry opportunities have really accelerated in the
past couple years, I haven't had a chance to be back at KS but once
every month or two. It's good to be back, but I think I'm happier and
have a broader and more sober perspective on the church issues at KS now
that I have my ministries elsewhere.

`More photos from the wedding and banquet in a separate
album! <http://photo.seanho.com/2008-07_Bob_Jayne_Wedding>`__

--------------

The weekend did have one shadow cast on it for me, although I suppose I
shouldn't have dwelt on it so much (and thanks Jon for chastening me
about that!). Friday night at the rehearsal dinner I happened to meet
for the first time and sit next to a well-known, long-time lay leader in
her past churches, prominent in the children's ministry. With that
common interest in children's and youth ministries, we struck up a
conversation about the need for whole-family outreach, with the
children's workers coordinating in tandem with the adult ministries that
can reach the parents. So far, so good. She talked about how so many of
the kids carry emotional hurts and pent-up anger and don't know how to
deal with it. Agreed! How all they need is to identify and express their
emotions, and they'll be able to heal themselves from there; they have
the power within themselves. Uhh, hold on a sec. She went on further
about self-actualization, reflecting some of the common thinking and
terminology I've seen in contemporary secular psychology.

And I've noticed this as a trend -- an alarming amount of pop psychology
making its way into the second-generation, CBC/ABC church. How everyone
has a voice (which is true), and all they need to find healing is to
express it (which is not true). How bottling up anger hurts oneself
(which is true), so hence one needs to vent it (which is not true). I
expect to see this kind of thinking in the secular world, but I am
sorely devastated to see it infiltrating the church. I was so incredibly
disappointed and sad, I had a hard time maintaining a conversation with
her; we kind of "agreed to disagree". It is important to "know thyself",
indeed, and to recognize emotional hurts, anger, bitterness. But it is
not sufficient simply to recognize, we also need to change. Where we are
is not where we should be.

I liken it to the difference between \ *confession* and \ *repentance*
(in modern-day usage; I think Scriptural usage assumes we understand the
two are inseparable). In today's language, confession means admitting
I'm wrong. But repentance involves turning away from sin and back toward
God. If I am perpetually angry, yes, I need to recognize that. But it's
not enough just to say, "I'm angry, that's the way I am" -- I need to
change, for \ `"the anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of
God" (James
1:20) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=James1:20>`__.
And the claim of Scripture is that we do not have the power within
ourselves to change; indeed, apart from Christ we \ `"can do nothing"
(John
15:5) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=jn15:5>`__.
This is why Christ died for us; this is why for all of man's problems --
addictions, self-image issues, family issues, failing marriages, angry
kids -- the \ *only* real solution is Jesus Christ himself.
