Contentment
###########
:date: 2007-11-10 16:26
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: musings, sabbath
:slug: contentment
:status: published

A famous photographer once said that as he matured in his art, he found
increasing beauty in things as simple as the late afternoon sun as it
falls on the side of a house. There is an essence there that I cannot
capture on film or CCD: it is, I think, the tranquil beauty of a heart
at peace.

It's been a while since I last blogged; things have been very very busy
both at work and in church ministries -- and those two circles have
pretty much occupied the entirety of my time! But I've been trying hard
to preserve Saturdays as a Sabbath rest: when I cease striving, put my
to-do list on hold, and find my contentment in Christ alone. It's been
kinda fun to work a little harder during the week so that I can get my
errands done before Saturday. I look forward to it as a special date
with God.

When God provided daily manna for the Israelites, He told them to gather
twice as much on the sixth day, so that they wouldn't have to go out on
the Sabbath. In the same way, I need to prepare my heart and consecrate
myself for the Sabbath.

Often, I'm not really ready for the Sabbath: my heart is tense; my mind
is racing with ideas and arguments and words unsaid; my hands clenched
and brow furrowed. But our Lord is so patient: as I come before Him and
acknowledge His presence, He softens my heart, stills my mind, and
renews my body.

This morning, I slept in quite late and still had to run a few errands,
swing south of the border to deposit checks, etc. But throughout the
day, through the shopping and driving and teeming crowds, God granted me
a measure of peace and contentment. At the Wal-Mart in Langley, I had a
chance to chat with an elderly gentleman selling poppy pins for veterans
-- his sister served in the Royal Canadian Air Force during WWII,
stationed in England, and barely survived a bomb blast that took out the
building next door. It was both sobering and encouraging to listen to
his story -- ordinarily, I talk way too much; it was so nice just to sit
and listen. Later, as I crossed the border, the line-ups were long with
Canadians going shopping, looking to take advantage of the exchange
rate. I got a nice kick out of using my new NEXUS card -- I got to
bypass the lines, the border agent was friendly, and the geek in me was
thrilled with the contactless RFID chip in the card! :)

I still have a lot to learn about the Sabbath. I know I need to orient
it more toward selfless service and less on my own desires. But my heart
is well-prepared now for preaching and teaching Sunday school tomorrow:
I have rested in the Lord. Amid everything else that I'm still
frustrated or discontent with (much of which I've already blogged about
here!), I can honestly say that right now,Â on this Sabbath evening, in
the arms of my Saviour, I am truly content in Christ.

    | If because of the Sabbath, you turn your foot
    |  From doing your own pleasure on My holy day,
    |  And call the Sabbath a delight, the holy day of the LORD
      honourable,
    |  And honour it, desisting from your own ways,
    |  From seeking your own pleasure and speaking your own word,

    | Then you will take delight in the LORD,
    |  And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth;
    |  And I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father,
    |  For the mouth of the LORD has spoken.
    |  `(Isaiah
      58:13-14) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49;&search=Is58:13-14>`__
