Golden ears in grey
###################
:date: 2008-02-10 16:13
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: church, landscape, ministry, musings
:slug: golden-ears-in-grey
:status: published

*`49° 9' 53" N by 122° 36' 14"
W <http://maps.google.com/maps?q=49.164736N122.60416W&t=h>`__*

The frequent, light snowfall we've been getting in recent weeks has
dusted the nearby Golden Ears with a beautifully soft powder, in this
photo taken last week. I had driven by this location in Fort Langley
before, where the view of the Golden Ears is bold and unobstructed over
open farmland. So when the skies cleared and I knew we were in for a
terrific sunset, I grabbed the big 300/2.8 lens and a sandwich, headed
to this spot, setup the tripod and composition, then relaxed in the car
and waited about 20 minutes for the light to get good.

In this exposure, the sun is still hidden behind a scrim of altocirrus,
so the lighting on the mountains is very even, almost shadowless. I also
have a series of exposures taken a bit later, when the sun peeks out
from beneath the clouds, right before sunset. A narrow, diffuse band of
fuchsia-purple works its way from the foothills up the mountain, before
the sun completely disappears beneath the horizon. But I still like this
frame best: I think the pastel monochrome accentuates the textures in
the forests and in the rocky peaks. It's exposed a bit dark because
it \ *was* dark, and cold, and peaceful in the twilight.

--------------

In the past six months or so, I think I've been settling into a style of
ministry that fits, and which matches what I had envisioned before I
moved to Canada three years ago. It's a bit unconventional, and I don't
claim that anyone else should follow in my footsteps, but it's really
freeing -- it's a bit like living by faith. It's carrying out \ `the
call I wrote about a year ago </2007/missionsfest-musings>`__. I simply
go where I'm invited to speak or teach, in submission to God's call.
It's a ministry which is simultaneously corporate and personal,
community and individual, working within the churches but also deepening
my own spiritual walk with Christ.

I think the churches feel safer with me because they know I have no
intention of starting my own church -- that constant fear of "sheep
stealing". (I just heard of yet another Chinese church English pastor
who left to start his own church! I'm of two minds about this trend.) I
think there is a lot that could happen if our existing churches were to
wake up and be revitalized by the transforming power of the Holy Spirit,
and I simply want to be an encouragement to them through the Word of
God. Mine is a ministry in community, because the whole point is to
build up the local churches, to assist and encourage the local pastors
and leaders, and ultimately, to break down un-Biblical dividing walls
between churches. If I serve and contribute to various different
churches, I can be an ambassador from each one to the others, bringing
greetings and sending blessings. As I have often said, the various
churches in Christ are not competitors, but collaborators.

At the same time, because I am focusing my work on the
preaching/teaching ministry of the Word of God, it's a personal journey.
Moving from church to church, I confess that I sometimes forget names
and past prayer requests -- I wish my memory were better; I wish I could
have super-deep relationships with each one, but I am limited. I do
treasure each relationship, and I'm so grateful for all my loving
brothers and sisters in all the churches. As far as authenticity and
transparency are concerned, I have no problem sharing my fears and
struggles, in person or from the pulpit. I have nothing to hide -- as
dear readers of my blog know well! :)

    | For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of, for I am
      under compulsion; for woe is me if I do not preach the gospel!
    |  `(I Corinthians
      9:16) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49;&search=1Cor9:16>`__

I \ *must* preach the Word of God; I am constrained to. I think our
generation has despised preaching -- we don't want to listen, and we
don't want to preach. I think we've already seen the results of this
manifested in a lack of Biblical mentality. In nearly every church I've
been, less than ten percent of the congregation has regular personal
devotions, and even fewer have read the whole Bible even once! Pastors
habitually abdicate their preaching responsibility because it's too
hard, then wonder why the church isn't unified in its teaching! No
wonder our young people are floundering in lack of discernment, and the
older generation is largely impotent to teach them -- without the
authority of Scripture, they can only fall back on, "well, we've always
done it this way!". This was the fall of the U.S. "Bible belt" over the
past 50 years, and it's reached our Chinese churches now.

Sometimes it feels as though the only constant I have from week to week
is the presence of Jesus and the unchanging truth of His Word. I have so
much deeper to go into the Scriptures -- I want to learn Hebrew and
Greek well; I want to be doing my quiet times in the original languages;
I want to be memorizing whole books. I also want to be challenged
regularly to communicate that truth to the believers and to the unsaved,
in a way which is both faithful to the text and engaging and practical.
This is my personal journey, which may take a lifetime to walk.

It's sometimes a lonely journey. We talk a lot about mentorship, but I'm
not convinced discipleship is as simple as a small-groups sign-up sheet.
Discipleship is not just meeting in a coffee-shop once a month;
it's \ *living* and \ *serving* together. Those who would truly follow
me would need to be willing to travel with me, and that's not easy. I
don't think there are many people who have a similar ministry calling. I
am cheered as I go from one body of believers to another, but my own
journey may be one I have to walk alone for some time yet.

yes ... I think that if I find even one person to walk this path
alongside me, that will be plenty.﻿
