Guarding your heart
###################
:date: 2008-07-01 21:19
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: relationships
:slug: guarding-your-heart
:status: published

This post is from snippets of a recent email conversation I had with a
friend (posted with permission!).

    Will you explain more on "guarding your heart"? After I came back
    from the camp, I have been spending time with my friend who has been
    bothered, in my opinion, by this "heart" thing. Her heart led her to
    take certain actions that later she regretted or she found she made
    a mess. Tonight another girl friend told me that her heart also led
    to make a major decision. Yes, I agree it is important for us to
    guard our hearts, but how? it is not easy in real life. We,
    especially the non-teenage we, are very good at deceiving ourselves
    with justifiable reasons too. How will you respond to these friends
    of mine?

Hmm, these are some tricky issues that prompt us to draw closer to
Christ for wisdom and discernment. I certainly can't speak to your
friends' particular situations, not knowing the details, but hopefully I
can encourage you with some general pointers from Scripture.

Assumptions: I assume that your friend is looking toward marriage,
serious about a relationship -- at this age, we are (or should be) past
the point of casual flings. Also, I assume that she wishes to honour God
foremost in life -- if your friend is not a Christian, then we might
take a different approach with her.

In `Genesis
2:24 <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49;&search=gen2:24>`__
God makes the first marriage, defining and ordaining it for generations
to come. Both Adam and Eve's roles in the ordination of this marriage
are relatively passive -- e.g., Adam was asleep! (Sometimes it seems
like most guys are pretty much asleep when it comes to relationships,
too! ;) ) It was God who brought them together; they did not seek each
other out. Of course, they did have freewill, and each had a role to
play -- on Adam's part, the moment he saw her he was bowled over, and
took her in as "flesh of his own flesh". Scripture does not describe
what Eve said, but she certainly accepted Adam's "proposal". They acted
in response to God's call and ordination.

My point is that I believe God is the one who ordains marriage, and as
in any life decision, who to pursue is something we must offer up to
God, to seek His direction and submit to His will. Yes, God created us
as emotional beings, and marriage should be an emotional connection in
addition to a spiritual connection, but simply to "follow your
heart" can lead one to rash and selfish decisions. Scripture says that
"the heart is deceitful above all things", but "the LORD searches the
heart" `(Jeremiah
17:9-10) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=jer17:9-10>`__.

An example of how emotions can lead us astray is Samson in Judges 14:

    | Then Samson went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnah, one of
      the daughters of the Philistines. So he came back and told his
      father and mother, "I saw a woman in Timnah, one of the daughters
      of the Philistines; now therefore, get her for me as a wife."
    |  `(Judges
      14:1-2) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=jdg14:1-2>`__

Samson had no regard for the fact that the Philistines worshipped false
idols, that they were in fact enemies of the Israelites at the time; he
just said, "I like her, I want her, get her for me as a wife." So many
Christians do the same thing today. I warn the teenage and young-adult
guys that I speak to, don't go out with a girl just because she
makes your eyes happy -- that's being selfish. How many times do we tell
God, "God, I really like him/her; now please bless this relationship!"?
We've already made the decision, and now we just want God to
rubber-stamp it. Now, it's not wrong to ask our loving Father for His
blessing, but it's much more important that we ask Him for His advice
and guidance *before* we get emotionally invested.

That doesn't mean that we need to switch off our emotions and become
robots, but it does mean that we need to submit our emotions to the will
of Christ, to seek Him first. The LORD does want to "give you the
desires of your heart", but the prerequisite is that you "delight
yourself in the LORD" `(Psalm
37:4) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=ps37:4>`__. Do we
really believe that God alone is able to fill all of our loneliness and
need? Do we really believe that if we had nothing else in the whole
world -- no spouse, no kids, no family -- that just having Jesus is
enough?

    | Seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things
      will be added to you.
    |  `(Matthew
      6:33) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=mt6:33>`__

So, what becomes of dating, then? How are we supposed to find a mate --
everyone just take a nap like Adam did, and hope for the best? :) No, I
think there is a place for building deep friendships and having honest,
open conversations with brothers and sisters in Christ. But, in my
experience at least, when we approach these conversations with the
primary goal of "hunting down" a mate, the high expectations strain the
fledgling relationship and often squash what could otherwise be a
valuable friendship. It may send the guy running for the hills; it may
raise the girl's "desperate creep" warning flags.

My advice, to both guys and girls? (Disclaimer: giving advice and living
it are two different things; I'm still struggling with these issues
myself!) I say, first and foremost, pursue God's calling for your life
ministry with reckless abandon. Is God calling you to marketplace
ministry? Kids' ministry? Counsellor to the teenage girls in the youth
group? One-on-one peer mentoring? Whatever it is, pursue it and work at
it with all your heart, serving the Lord and not man.

Secondly -- but really, this is the flip side of the first point -- make
sure to keep your own personal walk close to the heart of Christ. Quiet
times, Scripture, prayer, solitude, Bible study -- the normal spiritual
disciplines we all need to maintain. Keeping our character close to the
heart of Christ enables us to discern with wisdom and opens our eyes to
the opportunities and gentle nudgings that the Spirit provides.

Thirdly -- and this should flow quite naturally from the first two
points, because it's a part of Christian living -- build authentic,
constructive friendships with other believers who will encourage you to
grow closer to Christ and keep you accountable:

    | Let us not give up meeting together, as some are in the habit of
      doing, but let us encourage one another -- and all the more as you
      see the Day approaching.
    |  `(Hebrews
      10:25) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=heb10:25>`__

Don't be afraid to connect on a deep level with your brothers and
sisters in Christ; don't be afraid to initiate, even (and I do think
it's okay for both guys and girls to initiate!). But do it with an aim
to glorify Jesus and build up the other person in Christ -- not out of a
selfish desire to find a mate.

And if, after getting to know someone, you find God laying that person
on your heart more and more deeply and frequently, then I'd say offer
that up to God, pray about it, and communicate honestly and openly with
the person. None of us knows what the future holds, but we know that God
holds all our futures. If we can approach each experience and each
relationship with integrity, purity, and selfless love, according
to God's truth and with an aim to glorify Him, then I believe we will be
able to look back on each experience and see God's hand at work, to know
this is something God has done, and give Him praise:

    | What hath God wrought!
    |  `(Numbers
      23:23) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=num23:23&version=9>`__

| blessings!
|  Sean
