Lunch with Auntie "A"
#####################
:date: 2007-07-09 15:48
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: relationships, vcac
:slug: lunch-with-auntie-a
:status: published

Pastor Peter at KS has been very kind to me, showing caring concern for
me as I've tried to find a place in VCAC. He recommended that Auntie "A"
and I sit down and have a chat, so today we had a long lunch at a nice
seafood place in Richmond. Auntie A is a pillar of the church at KS and
has been here for quite a while. She's a little younger than my mom,
came to the U.S. about the same time; I'm about the same age as her
sons.

Ours was a pleasant conversation: Auntie A was very sweet and reminisced
of simpler times when she was a foreign student, when the church
fellowship was just about their only family on this side of the world.
She noted, and I agree, that our generation often doesn't have these
kinds of long-lasting close relationships -- childhood friends that
you've known for twenty years or more, whose parents were friends with
your parents. There are still a number of those families around at KS,
the "olde guard", who remember when the church was smaller and less
bureaucratic, when people cared and wanted to serve for the joy of it
rather than out of obligation, when the choir was strong and everyone
sang like they really meant it.

I remember that kind of a church, and I grew up with a church family
like that -- but it was a different family, in a different city. Coming
here, to this city, to this church, where no one knows me or my family
-- I have no roots here, but VCAC is a church with roots, and close-knit
ones, at that. Thinking over this now, I begin to wonder if maybe
it \ *would* have been easier had I moved back to my hometown, to the
place of my roots. But I know that Seattle has changed much in the last
ten years, and many of my childhood friends have moved on: other cities,
other churches, other lives. And, in all likelihood, I've moved on, too.

Vancouver is teeming with rootless young adults, and more flow in each
year. There are rootless, hip, young churches/ministries that cater to
this crowd, and I know I would fit in easily with them. And in a way,
those foreign-student fellowships of yesteryear in which lifelong
friendships were forged -- those were rootless, too:
they \ *established* roots by choosing to spend critical years of their
lives together. But I don't think that I would voluntarily move to such
a church; I think we gain so much more by reconciling in Christ and
learning from each other -- older generations and younger, English
congregations and Chinese congregations.

--------------

Going into this lunch, I had planned to talk primarily about the church,
to hear from Auntie A about its history, what events and issues that
have shaped its character. But somehow or other, we ended up talking
more about dating and marriage -- and "settling down". She counseled me
not to worry so much about the big issues of church politics -- I can't
fix the church, so why worry about things I can't do anything about? Her
advice was to start small and just enjoy the fellowship and community at
church.

And, she added, if I want to get married, I need to stay in one place
and spend the time to get to know people and be known. The single women
at KS, Auntie A observed, are mostly neither flashy nor highly educated,
but they are quite gentle and peaceable, and very sweet once you get to
know them. I concur!  But what remains to be seen is whether I'd be a
good match with such a person, or whether I need to change my
character/personality, or whether I need to look elsewhere, or none of
the above, or all of the above. I really don't know; I seek God's
guidance.

It is hard, though, for me to sit still week after week just attending
(1) worship service, (2) Sunday School, (3) prayer meeting, and (4)
small group, like I once was told to do. Merely to sit through a fluffy
sermon, a sleepy, uni-directional Sunday School, a sparse prayer
meeting, and a small group disconnected from the church -- I'm not
content! I've seen Christendom outside VCAC, I've seen vibrant churches
that are really alive in the Spirit -- indeed, it sounds like
VCAC \ *used* to have that life in its first generation. We have so much
potential, so much raw material: I see what we \ *could*\ be, under
God's hand. And I \ *care* about our people: I care about the faithful
few who are so burnt out, frustrated, cynical, and under-appreciated. I
care about the disconnected many who are so talented, thirsty,
ill-equipped, and also under-appreciated. I want them all to experience
release and joy and trust -- letting go into God's mighty hands -- being
built up by encouragement, not guilt.

There's a fire in my soul, and what I see as more important than merely
filling the Sunday School teachers' roster is the \ *atmosphere* and
character of our church -- our heart-attitude toward ministry, toward
people, indeed, toward God. As the old hymn celebrates: there is joy in
serving Jesus! Do we show it? Do we share it?
