Me at Bridal Falls
##################
:date: 2007-04-21 17:41
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: musings, sabbath
:slug: me-at-bridal-falls
:status: published

`*49°10'55.68"N by
121°44'25.19"W* <http://maps.google.com/maps?q=49%C2%B010'55.68%22N%20121%C2%B044'25.19%22W&t=h>`__

It's the middle of finals week: I've administered two finals and still
have one left to make, and I'm way behind on my marking, but I just
really needed to get away somewhere quiet. So on my way home, instead of
continuing on Glover Road as usual, I hooked a left turn and headed east
down the highway.

With the windows down, sunroof open, and the countryside spread out in
front of me, the calming effect of the open road enveloped me. The
afternoon sunshine, veiled by thin clouds, was bright but not hot,
lighting up the green fields around me. Highway 1 through this portion
of the Fraser Valley is often flat and straight as an arrow, the divided
lanes running like twin monorails through the fertile valley. On both
sides, the valley is walled in with high mountains, still snowcapped in
the spring.

There is something soothing to me about being on the Trans-Canada
Highway, knowing that it stretches all the way across the continent.
With no agenda, no destination, no deadline, as long as there's gas in
the tank, I could just keep on driving as far as I wanted. No decisions
to make -- I wouldn't even have to decide which exit to take, I could
just go. The life of the lone sojourner, a "voice in the wilderness",
simple and free. Is there a part of me that still yearns for that? Rich
Mullins, in his
song \ `"Elijah" <http://www.kidbrothers.net/lyrics/elijah-rm.html>`__,
penned these words: "This life has shown me how we're mended / And how
we're torn / How it's O.K. to be lonely / As long as you're free". He
lived a full life but died single, in a tragic car accident in 1997.

Inevitably, though, I had to stop somewhere, and by the time the open
road had blown away my stresses and I relaxed enough to take in my
surroundings, I was past Chilliwack and nearing the famous Harrison Hot
Springs. Finally I exited the highway, switching off the radio, slowing
down, and meandering into Bridal Veil Falls Provincial Park. From the
parking lot, the falls themselves are just a short hike away, a pleasant
stroll through mossy woods, with bark and pine needles soft beneath my
feet.

Bridal Falls is a 60-metre misty cascade of white tumbling down round
rock faces, spreading out wider as it drapes down the mountain. The
approach to the falls is up a steep ascent, making it appear even more
tall and grand to the eye. There is also an unexpected breeze: the trail
leading to the falls, through the forest, is protected by surrounding
foliage, so the air is quiet and still. But around the falls, wind
sweeps down the mountainside and follows the water, bringing a cold,
damp mist with it. It is here, beneath the falls, surrounded by the mist
and the roar, that I sit for a spell, sheltered in the lee of a large
cedar tree. I pray, but don't really get any answers, at least as far as
I can tell. I seek clarity, a pathway ahead, guidance in making
decisions. It is unsatisfying to return home without clear answers, but
perhaps it's simply that the message God is speaking is not the kind of
answer I'm attuned to.

Before I leave, I hike up a steep, gravelly rockfall, right up to the
foot of the falls. I am inexorably drawn to the beauty and the power of
the falls, the soft innocence of white mist juxtaposed with the ferocity
of the torrent. With the majestic falls above me and the (slightly
dizzying) steep slope below me, I am reminded of God's response to Job's
questions. Job asked, "Why?", and cursed the day of his own birth; his
wife was of little support; his closest friends were quick to assign
blame to him. At first glance it seems as though God did not answer
Job's questions: Job did not immediately get a detailed explanation of
the court in heaven. But God's reply is so much more powerful -- He
points to the stormclouds and the thunder, the Pleiades and the cold
sky, the eagles and the mountain goats, the \ *behemoth* and
the \ *leviathan*. Out of the majesty of creation, the Majestic Creator
demands from Job:

    | Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth?
    |  Tell Me, if you have understanding.
    |  Who set its measurements? Since you know.
    |  Or who stretched the line on it? On what were its bases sunk?
    |  Or who laid its cornerstone,
    |  When the morning stars sang together,
    |  And all the sons of God shouted for joy?
    |  `(Job 38:4-7,
      NASB) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=job38>`__

My heart is rolling now, and together with the young philosopher Elihu,
my response to God's majesty is this:

    | At this also my heart trembles, and leaps from its place.
    |  Listen closely to the thunder of His voice,
    |  And the rumbling that goes out from His mouth.
    |  `(Job 37:1-2,
      NASB) <http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?version=49&search=job37>`__

God is in control; He is strong and mighty to save. I still don't know
the pathway ahead -- I don't know which exit to take -- but I know this:
His eye is on the sparrow, and I know He watches me.
