Two-hour Sabbath at Como Lake
#############################
:date: 2008-02-17 13:20
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: sabbath
:slug: two-hour-sabbath-at-como-lake
:status: published

My schedule has been crazy insane lately: no leeway, everything is down
to the wire, prepping at the very last minute, whether lectures or
marking or Bible pre-study or sermon prep -- I feel pretty shaky! I did
not take a proper Sabbath yesterday (Saturday) like I should have, and
I'm feeling the effects today. This morning's service at SVPG went well,
but I was low on energy, and although the Scriptures still have all the
power and efficacy, I think I could have conveyed that power more.

I had some time between 11:20 and 3pm, when Coquitlam ECBC English
service starts, so I briefly considered swinging by FL, which I haven't
visited in nearly a year. But then, I imagined, we'd stay chatting until
1pm, go out for lunch, and I'd be rushing to CECBC -- the same go-go-go
schedule I usually have on Sundays. This is okay sometimes, but not a
good thing when I haven't had a Sabbath yet.

So instead, I took a quiet lunch here on this park bench at the small
Como Lake in Coquitlam. It is still quite chilly; there are patches of
snow still on the ground in shaded areas, and the lake has a very thin
layer of ice on top. It was so pleasant just to be still, to pause for a
moment: the \ *"shabbat"*-- simply to \ *cease*. I didn't have quite as
much time for prayer as I wanted to, but I did nearly finish memorizing
the book of Philippians, a month-long project with one of my small
groups.

I watched a pair of ducks try to work their way toward each other
through the ice -- if it were a bit warmer, the ice would be gone and
they could just paddle through the water. If it were a bit colder, the
ice would be thicker, and they could walk on it. But the ice is just
thin enough that the moment they put weight on it, it collapses, making
for slow going. It was so cute to see the mallard duck trying so hard to
get to his mate. Then once they finally reached each other, there was
this awkward moment, like, "okay, we're here; now what?". :) So they
just dipped their bills in and out of the water and chatted quietly.
Awww!
