WinterCon in Calgary
####################
:date: 2007-12-30 16:11
:author: seanho
:category: Blog
:tags: dream, ministry, travel
:slug: wintercon-in-calgary
:status: published

*`51°02'46"N by
114°03'45"W <http://maps.google.com/maps?q=51%C2%B002'46.1616%22N%20114%C2%B003'45.828%22W&t=h>`__*

Well, I've heard so much about \ `Canada Chinese Christian Winter
Conference <http://cccwc.ca/>`__, and this year I finally got the chance
to go, as a workshop speaker for the teens. This year (and last year,
and next year) it was at the Hyatt in beautiful Calgary, where it's
sunny and ten-below-zero (Celsius). Here's a view of the neighbouring
Calgary Tower, seen from the 18th-floor indoor pool. I hardly left the
hotel, though -- I was there for the kids, so everything I wanted to see
was inside the building!

CCCWC has been going on for 47 years now, sometimes as big as 1600
people, sometimes much smaller. I had heard that in the past it had had
financial issues, political in-fighting, a penchant to drain and
burn-out coworkers, and a reputation for being a bit of a meet-market
amongst the teens and young adults. But I had also heard that it had
changed so many lives, connected and united fellow Christians, and
dozens had started their path to full-time ministry at WinterCon.

Did it meet my expectations? Yes, and then some -- in both good and bad
ways! I had strategically declined any sort of administrative
responsibilities, so I was distanced from the politics, but in chatting
with the coworkers, I could hear the stress imposed by competing
expectations. The teens' side went pretty much as I expected -- fun and
passionate and full of crises and breakthroughs, just as life is for
teenagers! Youth retreats are still rewarding every time.

The English adults' side was curious for me to see, quite slick and "HK
cool", I thought. The worship times felt a lot like TWU praise chapel,
which I suppose shouldn't be surprising since most of the crowd was
college/university age. I was pretty disappointed with the messages: the
speaker was a seminary prof who had lovely lyrical poetry, but very
little to say of practical depth. I would often pop in for the worship
but head over to the youth side for the messages and altar-call
follow-up. If I had to sum it up in a word: "comfortable".

With teens, the crises are so often visible right on the surface -- they
wear their hearts on their sleeves. When a four-year-old is bored, she
will let you know (very loudly, if necessary!). When a fourteen-year-old
is mad at God, he will let you know -- destructively, if necessary. As a
result, I've found that particularly in youth ministry, one tends to
feel perpetually on the verge of catastrophe. But it is this urgency
that propels us forward, drives us down to our knees, and keeps us
ever-vigilant, never-stagnant.

I had a dream recently that I was back in resident youth ministry -- as
an incumbent youth worker, a lay youth pastor, for a group of 30-40 kids
at some small Chinese church. We had a special all-church event, and the
children were presenting a song, and the teens were supposed to present
something, as well. We were practising in a different room and needed to
get over to the main sanctuary, so I sent the kids over ahead of me
single-file -- but then I needed to run ahead of them, to make sure the
adults were ready for us, make sure the kids didn't sit in the very
back, make sure there were enough chairs for them, etc. The overriding
feeling I had in my dream was that I needed to run as fast as I possibly
could -- and even that wasn't fast enough. I get that feeling a lot in
youth work! :) But it isn't a demoralizing, guilt-inducing feeling;
rather, it's fun and exciting and keeps me constantly in prayer, leaning
on God's strength instead of my own.

The CCCWC theme this year was "Finishing the Race: Our Challenge and Our
Crown", and I just realized as I was typing this that it applies exactly
to my dream and that feeling of running as hard as I can: to provide for
the kids, to serve God, to pursue the goal. There is a restful peace
when I know I've put my whole effort in, and there is a revitalizing
energy in knowing that there is ever more that God is doing, far beyond
what I can ask or imagine.

`More photos in a separate
album! <http://photo.seanho.com/Travels/2007-12_CCCWC_Calgary/>`__
